---
title: Offerings for the completion of the monastery | Benedictines | SK
metaDescription: >-
    Thank you for each contribution. We pray for our benefactors daily and once a month a Holy Mass
    is celebrated for their intentions. We organize for those who are interested among our
    benefactors a spiritual renewal in our monastery twice a year.
showIban: true
preamble:
    title: Offerings for the completion of the monastery building
    text: >
        “Thank you for each contribution. We pray for our benefactors daily and once a month a
        Holy Mass is celebrated for their intentions. We organize for those who are interested
        among our benefactors a spiritual renewal in our monastery twice a year.”
    author: The Benedictine sisters
    img: /images/offerings.jpg
---

This monastery of the Most Holy Mother of God was founded in the year 2006 by
our mother house, the Monastery of St. Mark (Offida, Italy). Two years later,
the construction was started. The finished parts of the monastery are already
open to welcome those who need to quiet their minds and gather new strength.
However, the building of the monastery is so far unfinished. Exterior plaster
and insulation are missing, church is in rough construction… Exposure to weather
leads to deterioration in the unfinished parts of the monastery.

If the monastery is to fulfil its mission, the construction work has to be
completed. This is possible only with the help of voluntary offerings from our
benefactors. You also can contribute to the fulfilment of this noble aim, either
financially or with your prayers!

> "Exposure to weather leads to deterioration in the unfinished parts of the
> monastery"

<div class="image-full">
    <img src="/images/article01-1.jpg">
    <p>The Monastery of the Most Holy Mother of God (Horne Oresany)</p>
</div>

# Monastic architecture

### Two worlds

The monastic architecture exhibits a meeting of two worlds: the world of modern
society and the traditional world of monastic life, “whose origins go back to
the distant past, to the days of old”(Micah 5:1). This meeting is expressed by
the combination of two architectural styles, which approach each other to become
one but without conflicting. One without the other would not be complete. For
the purpose of nuns the classic style was chosen; for contrast the modern style
was chosen for the church and guest part. Both complexes are based on symmetric
features, which are expressions of fullness and perfection: square for cloister,
circle for section that is dedicated to hospitality toward the world.

### Entry to the monastery

In order to maximize the openness of the concept, the semi-circular shape that
borders the guest part with the church towards the driveway extends to the veil:
“See, some shall come from afar, others from the north and the west, …” (Isaiah
49,12). According to this circular layout of access area all steps lead to one
direction, which in the guest creates a feeling that there is a center to be
discovered; a core that attracts and radiates at the same time. In the
semicircular line of the peripheries of this entrance there are twelve
“guardians” in the form of pillars watching over our monastery: “twelve pillars
for the twelve tribes of Israel” (Exodus 24,4), “the twelve names of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb” (Revelation 21,14). The modern part of the building is
reserved for the guest thus giving him the possibility to "acclimatize" his
first contact with the unknown monastic world. Even so, access to the guest part
is not entirely immediate: it asks the guest for a step-by-step approach process
through so called scenery which several times twists the facade of the monastery
toward the access road.

### Monastic architecture

On the one hand these imposing pillars are as tall as heaven; they stand in
light and give the impression they want to deny entrance. On the other hand, by
having many passages, they invite the visitor to step in through them step by
step. So the guest does not meet the unknown world immediately, and at the same
time progressively enters to the place where God hides his presence. Of course
the windows of the guest rooms are not directed to the interiors of the
monastery, the heart of monastic architecture, but toward the entrance area to
the monastery revealing to the body and to the soul “from your river of
delights” (Psalm 36:9), because the guest is called to not enter the way of life
which is not his life but to return to his own world and vocation.

<div class="image-side-by-side">
    <div class="left">
        <img src="/images/article01-2.jpg">
        <p>External composition</p>
    </div>
    <div class="right">
        <img src="/images/article01-3.jpg">
        <p>Interior of the Church</p>
    </div>
</div>

### Church architecture

The guest´s part of the Monastery and the church represent the architectural
complex which has the form of the fish – the symbol of the Christ. The guest´s
part is located in the middle part“the fish” and on the “tale of the fish”. In
the “head of the fish”, the church is located. The altar is situated in the “eye
of the fish”, the choir of the nuns represent the “gills of the fish”, because
this is where the Church – the Christ body – gains vitality and catches its
breath. The apse, representing the “mouth of the fish” is open towards the East,
from where we expect the coming of Christ on the day of His glorious return:

> “For as lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so
> will be the coming of the Son of Man!” (Matthew 24,27).

The aperture in the apse extends to the high-rise flat roof of the church, which
spreads in that way over its entire length. This crack, which allows the eye to
lock in the celestial vault, awakens the intuition of the uncompromising
dynamics of Christ&#39;s Resurrection. This light beam, which allows us to
“contemplate the opened heaven” and “to think of things that are above”, comes
from Christ, hidden in the tabernacle.

<div class="image-full">
    <img src="/images/article01-4.jpg">
    <p>The Monastery of the Most Holy Mother of God (Horne Oresany)</p>
</div>

### The Monastery courtyard

The Monastery courtyard, the exact square, is the heart of the Monastery, a
window open to heaven. In its center is situated the well, the symbol of Christ,
as the Scripture says:“Streams of living water flow from deep within him.“ (John
7:38). From the well – the source of life - cross-shaped four canals run through
small channels, which, after crossing the stairway, visibly intersect the four
sides of the Monastery to be gradually lost in the surrounding terrain:

> “Now a river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it
> branched into four headwaters.” (Genesis 2:10).

Without this constant spiritual irrigation, coming from Christ, which is an
inexhaustible source, the monastic life would have dried up. But “but whoever
may drink of the water that I will give him, may not thirst“ (John 4:14). His
water will not only quench our thirst, but will also refresh any kind of
spiritual pollution. The cross symbol leaves its traces not only in the earth
and the pavement but also on the building itself: in line with the trail of four
streams, the cross is architecturally embedded with deep notches in all the
outer walls, as well as the slots in the roof.

It is expressed through architecture, that the mystery of the cross, which marks
the life of every person in an indelible way, has its primacy in the Monastery:
creates a fixed center. The encounter with the outside world is most evident in
the monastery courtyard, which is the most intimate and the most protected place
of the Monastery. Two-thirds of the monastery courtyard is reminiscent of the
classic architecture of the medieval monastery: a stylish roof decorated with
charming dormers, regular rotation of the walls with windows of rooms. The
opposite side, which follows the parameters of modern architecture, creates the
desired contrast: flat roof, standalone oversized window, a bare gigantic wall
of reinforced concentrate without any aperture or architectural element. It
could have been a monastery courtyard according to the canon: symmetrical,
balanced and harmonious; the beauty of perfection, a piece of paradise on earth
as it is classically defined. This one is uncomfortable: every day, we are
encouraged not to enclose ourselves in a romantic and idyllic corner, which is
reserved and accessible only to those living in it; but take the world of today
as it is: marked by a lack of spiritual light and heat, often deformed, without
depth, balance and beauty, in constant pains due to the convulsive search for
the meaning of life, love and happiness. The encounter of these two worlds can
be the chance for both of them if they are laid at Jesus&#39; feet and
beautified by prayer: they will be a mirror to each other that can lead to
restoration and to growth ... to light.

Voluntary offerings for the completion of the monastery can be sent to the
following bank account:
